*vim-tips-wiki-973.txt*   Use the same runtime files for native-Windows Vim and cygwin Vim *vtw-973*

Tip 973 [https://vim.fandom.com/wiki/Use_the_same_runtime_files_for_native-Windows_Vim_and_cygwin_Vim]   Previous |vtw-972| Next |vtw-974|

created August 15, 2005 · complexity basic · author Tony Mechelynck 
[https://vim.fandom.com/wiki/User:Tonymec] · version 5.7

==============================================================================

It is possible to keep native-Windows and Cygwin versions of Vim on a same 
machine with common runtime files (I have done it; but see Run native-Windows 
Vim from cygwin without a wrapper 
[https://vim.fandom.com/wiki/Run_native-Windows_Vim_from_cygwin_without_a_wrapper] 
for an alternative solution). Here is what you need to do for that:

1. Install the full Windows distribution in C:\Program Files\vim\vim## where 
## is the version (e.g. 63 for Vim 6.3, or 70aa for Vim 7.00aa ALPHA).

2. Install the cygwin executables (of the same version and sub-version; the 
patchlevel may be different), in /bin; don't install the "cygwin runtime 
files".

Repeat either step 1 or step 2 at each upgrade.

3. Set VIM (in the Windows environment) to C:\Program Files\vim and HOME to 
your home directory

4. In the cygwin startup files (e.g. ~/.bash_profile) add the following 
lines:

>
    export VIM=`cygpath -u $VIM`
    export HOME=`cygpath -u $HOME`
<

5. All runtime files must be in Unix format. If they aren't, do the following 
in vim (version 7 or later) for native-Windows (it takes some time but it's 
fairly automatic). (On version 6 it's possible but since ** wildcards are not 
recognised it is more work.) (See also Installing several releases in 
parallel, even with matchit 
[https://vim.fandom.com/wiki/Installing_several_releases_in_parallel,_even_with_matchit] 
about how to install several _different_ versions in parallel.)

>
    :set nomore
    :args $VIM/**/*.vim
    :argdo setl ff=unix
    :args $VIM/**/*.txt
    :argdo setl modifiable noro ff=unix
    :set more
<

6. Directories $HOME/vimfiles and $HOME/.vim must be made identical. This can 
be done in Cygwin bash with the following command:

>
    cd ~
    ln -s vimfiles .vim
<

Steps 3 to 6 need be done only once, they remain valid even if you later 
install a different version.

COMMENTS                                                    *vtw-973-comments*

Note: Cygwin is a "Unix-like" OS, Windows is a "Dos-like" OS. With the above 
tip, you will use a common _vimrc (and common user plugins) for both. Any 
differences can be resolved by using

>
    if has("unix")
      " cygwin-specific code
    else
      " native-windows-specific code
    endif
<

or even (e.g. if, in addition to this, you use dual-boot)

>
    if has("unix")
      " code common to Cygwin and Linux
      if has("win32unix")
        " code for Cygwin but not Linux
      else
        " code for Linux but not Cygwin
      endif
    elseif has("win32")
      " code for windows-native Vim
    else
      echoerr "Unknown OS"
    endif
<

See :help |has()| and :help |feature-list| for more examples.

==============================================================================

 vim:tw=78:et:ft=help:norl: