*vim-wiki-tips-675.txt*   How to turn off all colors *vwt-675*

Tip 675 [https://vim.fandom.com/wiki/How_to_turn_off_all_colors]   Previous |vwt-673| Next |vwt-676|

created March 12, 2004 · complexity intermediate · author mdmiller · version 
6.0

==============================================================================

If you're like me, you don't want a colorful editor. I spent hours looking 
for a "turn off all those colors right now!!" command and I couldn't find any 
help. After some poking around for a while, I found the commands you need. 
Just put these at the end of your vimrc file.

>
    syntax off
    set nohlsearch
    set t_Co=0
<

If you don't have a vimrc file, simply create one in your home directory.

COMMENTS  *vwt-675-comments*

If you want coloring sometimes but want an easy way to turn it off 
occasionally (while editing) type

>
    :set syntax=
<

==============================================================================

What's wrong with

>
    :syntax off
<

==============================================================================

With "syntax off" alone Vim will still use colored highlighting when you 
search for things. For those who simply think colors are yucky, that's reason 
enough. For me, there's also the fact that I usually lose interest in a search 
term a few minutes after I find it. (i.e. find where a variable is used, 
examine the use of that variable, then move on to something unrelated.) I find 
it disconcerting to have something highlighted when it is no longer important 
to me. Yes, I know there is a way to turn off the highlight from the previous 
search, but it takes more keystrokes than I want to mess with. And I could 
simply search for something that isn't in the file I'm editing, but such a 
kluge of an answer disturbs me.

So the next thing I tried was "syntax off" + "set t_Co=0", and that made vim 
comepletely colorless, but search result highlighting was accomplished through 
alternate means - I believe bold or italics or some such thing. To clarify 
what I wrote in the previous paragraph, the emphasis of a currently 
uninteresting search result is the thing I dislike, not the means of the 
emphasis. So this option was not good enough for me.

I also tried "syntax off" + "set nohlsearch". This option is nice most of the 
time, but vim still used colors to emphasize some of its error messages. By 
the time I discovered this, I was so frustrated with vim that I wanted to beat 
it into submission. I wanted no colors, no emphasized text, nothing that 
looked at all different than traditional vi. (I know, this is a silly 
emotional reaction. But when you use technology all day, it needs to be 
comfortable. And "comfort" is a word that can only be completely defined in an 
emotional context.)

For my purposes, "syntax off" + "set nohlsearch" + "set t_Co=0" is the only 
satisfying option. Leaving out any ingredient gives me something that is not 
good enough. Given that "syntax off" + "set t_Co=0" will produce a colorless 
vim, perhaps I did not choose the best title for my tip, but people seem to be 
enjoying it, so I have no regrets.

Now you know what is wrong (from my personal point of view) with just typing 
"syntax off".

==============================================================================
    -  Additionally:


For a more practical reason to include set t_Co=0 than just "to beat it into 
submission," consider that, without this line, vim not only uses color for 
some error messages, but also for control characters (e.g. tabs and line 
endings under set list, or characters made visible via ^V). If the colors are 
hard to read on a given terminal, the ability to turn them off can be crucial.

==============================================================================
    -  An alternative viewpoint:


I couldn't get "syntax off" to work reliably enough for me (admittedly this 
was years ago, so it might be an old problem). Here's what I use:

>
    set nohlsearch
    set noincsearch
    filetype off
<

The thing that's turning the syntax highlighting on in the first place is the 
vim plugin system that reacts to the filetype it determines the file to be. So 
this disables that altogether (which theoretically should make it load files 
faster, although honestly the difference--if there even is one--is so small 
it's unnoticeable). Plus turning the annoying searching stuff off.

That doesn't disable all the highlighting completely, but I find that 
whatever is leftover is fine. YMMV, natch.

==============================================================================
    -  An alternative viewpoint:


On debian 6 based system, I found a /etc/vim/vimrc.local file had syntax on 
and this was overriding what I had in VIMINIT environment variable. My 
solution was to comment out "syntax on" in the /etc/vim/vimrc.local file. The 
previous two sentences was written 3/5/2014 re: vim 7.2.

 vim:tw=78:et:ft=help:norl: