*vim-tips-wiki-580.txt*   Using DDE to open the current Vim file in Visual Studio *vtw-580*

Tip 580 [https://vim.fandom.com/wiki/Using_DDE_to_open_the_current_Vim_file_in_Visual_Studio]   Previous |vtw-579| Next |vtw-581|

created 2003 · complexity intermediate · author Francois Leblanc · version 
6.0

==============================================================================

This tip is probably only useful for old versions of Visual Studio. For 
integrating Vim with modern versions of Visual Studio, see Integrate gvim with 
Visual Studio [https://vim.fandom.com/wiki/Integrate_gvim_with_Visual_Studio].

To open a file in an existing instance of some versions of Visual Studio, a 
DDE call must be initiated. It's an old and obsolete technology called Dynamic 
Data Exchange used for interprocess communication. When you click on a .cpp 
file in the Windows Explorer it calls devenv.exe with the /DDE switch (it's 
undocumented) and sends it an Open DDE command. You can see it for yourself if 
you look at the file type mapping of .cpp in the Windows Explorer (if you 
haven't already changed them to open Vim). The Explorer shell is DDE enabled 
but I found no way to send DDE from the command line (I didn't really look for 
it either). So I wrote a small C++ console app from the code I got from an 
Experts Exchange question. I formatted the code, renamed references from 
Visual Studio to DevEnv and put it in a project.

Setting the line number is a different problem. I wrote a Perl script using 
the Win32::GuiTest module. This module allows interacting with the Windows GUI 
and provides a very useful function called SendKeys. The script finds the 
Visual C++ window (if you are using a different language change the script) 
and sends it: a CTRL-G, the current line number as specified on the command 
line and ENTER.

It is integrated in Vim by a function (in vimrc) that gets the current file 
name and line number and silently executes the script:

>
    function! DevEnvDDE()
      let cmd = '!devenvdden.pl %:p ' . line(".")
      silent execute cmd
    endfunction
<

All that is left is to map the function to a key.

You can get the source files for the Perl script and DDE project at 
http://dunderxiii.tripod.com/vimtips/devenvdde.zip 
[http://dunderxiii.tripod.com/vimtips/devenvdde.zip]

The original DDE code was taken at 
http://www.experts-exchange.com/Programming/Programming_Platforms/Win_Prog/Q_20489782.html 
[http://www.experts-exchange.com/Programming/Programming_Platforms/Win_Prog/Q_20489782.html]

Win32::GUITest is located at http://sourceforge.net/projects/winguitest/ 
[http://sourceforge.net/projects/winguitest/]

COMMENTS                                                    *vtw-580-comments*

I have the script send-to-msdev.sh, that uses Perl + Win32::Ole to open files 
in VC. You can even set breakpoints from Perl, this script has pointers to 
MSDN documentation.http://www.cs.albany.edu/~mosh/Perl/send-to-msdev.ksh 
[http://www.cs.albany.edu/~mosh/Perl/send-to-msdev.ksh]

==============================================================================

I updated the DevEnvDDE program to connect to Visual Studio .NET 2003. The 
code now supports an extra command line parameter that specifies the visual 
studio instance to open the file in (VS6, VSNET or VSNET2003). Simply download 
the new sources (same link).

Note: it now defaults to Visual Studio .NET 2003 instead of Visual Studio 
.NET

CATEGORIES                                                      *vtw-580-cats*

Integration |vtw-by-category-integration|
Windows |vtw-by-category-windows|


 vim:tw=78:et:ft=help:norl: