*vim-wiki-tips-1323.txt*   Invert the number row keys for faster typing *vwt-1323*

Tip 1323 [https://vim.fandom.com/wiki/Invert_the_number_row_keys_for_faster_typing]   Previous |vwt-1322| Next |vwt-1326|

created September 7, 2006 · complexity basic · author Peter Hodge · version 
5.7

==============================================================================

In many languages you will use '!@#$%^&*()_' far more often than you use 
'1234567890-' so you will find yourself pressing SHIFT quite often, but this 
is not necessary. You can reverse the function of the number row keys so that 
typing a number key gives you the symbol instead of the number, and 
SHIFT-Number-Key can be used to type the number. This will save you a lot of 
time leaning on the SHIFT key, especially for '(' and ')' and '_', which are 
more common than their non-SHIFT characters '9' and '0' and '-'.

Just add these commands to your vimrc [https://vim.fandom.com/wiki/Vimrc]

>
    " map each number to its shift-key character
    inoremap 1 !
    inoremap 2 @
    inoremap 3 #
    inoremap 4 $
    inoremap 5 %
    inoremap 6 ^
    inoremap 7 &
    inoremap 8 *
    inoremap 9 (
    inoremap 0 )
    inoremap - _
    " and then the opposite
    inoremap ! 1
    inoremap @ 2
    inoremap # 3
    inoremap $ 4
    inoremap % 5
    inoremap ^ 6
    inoremap & 7
    inoremap * 8
    inoremap ( 9
    inoremap ) 0
    inoremap _ -
<

This is very frustrating for the first month or two when you will frequently 
press SHIFT when you don't need to, or forget to press SHIFT when you do. 
After a few months your typing speed should be noticeably faster and more 
relaxed as you are no longer holding the SHIFT key down all day.

COMMENTS                                                   *vwt-1323-comments*

This tip could make you quite crazy if you use other programs, say Word. 
Other than that, it would be very cool typing parenthesis without pressing 
shift!

==============================================================================

If you are used to typing numbers on the numpad with NumLock on, just map 
each number to its shift-key character, leaving shift-number keys as is.

This way, you can keep typing shift-key characters with Shift, until you get 
used to the new easiest typing style.

==============================================================================

I tried putting this in my .vimrc, but then went back and pulled it out when 
I realized a flaw. The change only applies within the Vim buffer. Once I got 
to the command line (for example, entering ":q!", what I actually entered was 
":q1") since the remapping did not extend outside the Vim buffer.

==============================================================================

I don't use this tip, but you can replace each "inoremap" with "noremap!" to 
have the mapping apply in insert mode as well as command mode.

==============================================================================

Well, if you're brave you could do it system-wide:

>
    xmodmap - <<EOF
    keycode  10 = 1 exclamdown onesuperior exclamdown onesuperior
    keycode  11 = 2 quotedbl at twosuperior at twosuperior
    keycode  12 = 3 numbersign sterling threesuperior sterling threesuperior
    keycode  13 = 4 dollar
    keycode  14 = percent 5 onehalf cent onehalf cent
    keycode  15 = ampersand 6 yen fiveeighths yen fiveeighths
    keycode  16 = slash 7 braceleft division braceleft division
    keycode  17 = parenleft 8 bracketleft guillemotleft bracketleft guillemotleft
    keycode  18 = parenright 9 bracketright guillemotright bracketright guillemotright
    keycode  19 = 0 equal braceright degree braceright degree
    EOF
<

This is what I'm experimenting with now. Since I actually use at least 1,2,3 
fairly often, only swapped half the row ^^ Not sure how it'll work out though

==============================================================================

This tip is for US-QWERTY only. Other "national keyboards" have different 
symbols on the number keys, and some have the numbers "shifted" with 
punctuation marks and/or accented letters on the "unshifted" side of the same 
keys — my fr-BE is an example, but fr-FR, though also an AZERTY keyboard, has 
different symbols on the "unshifted" digits.

Of course, the inoremaps at top can be adapted mutatis mutandis to any 
keyboard which has "unshifted" digits (those with "shifted" digits don't need 
them); it's much less obvious what regards the xmodmap solution, because of 
the esoteric key names — and also, of course, it works for X11 but not for 
Windows, and I don't know about the Mac. — Tonymec 
[https://vim.fandom.com/wiki/User:Tonymec] 23:47, 25 May 2009 (UTC)

==============================================================================

 vim:tw=78:et:ft=help:norl: