*vim-tips-wiki-1579.txt*   Vim on Freenode                             *vtw-1579*

Tip 1579 [https://vim.fandom.com/wiki/Vim_on_Freenode]   Previous |vtw-1578| Next |vtw-1580|

created 
[https://vim.fandom.com/wiki/Vim_Tips_Wiki:New_tips/200802#Vim_on_Freenode] 
2008 · complexity basic · author Metacosm · version 7.0

==============================================================================

Searching the tips on this wiki can often help solve a problem encountered 
when using Vim. However, if you want to ask a question, you will need to 
subscribe to a mailing list 
[https://vim.fandom.com/wiki/Vim_Tips_Wiki:Community_Portal], or join the #vim 
IRC channel.

IRC OVERVIEW                                           *vtw-1579-irc-overview*

IRC (Internet Relay Chat [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Internet_Relay_Chat]) 
is a form of real-time text messaging (chat). A user installs a suitable IRC 
client 
[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Comparison_of_Internet_Relay_Chat_clients] 
program, then configures it to connect to an IRC network (such as freenode 
[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Freenode]), and a specific channel on that 
server (such as #vim).

JOINING #VIM                                           *vtw-1579-joining-#vim*

To join the #vim IRC channel you need to use an IRC client to connect to the 
freenode IRC network.mIrc, XChat, Miranda and Pidgin can all be used to 
connect to an IRC network. On Firefox you can also use the ChatZilla addon.You 
can also use the freenode web chat [https://webchat.freenode.net/] so you 
don't have to install any software.

Choose an IRC server from the freenode website server listing 
[http://www.freenode.net/irc_servers.shtml] near you to connect to. Your 
client of choice will probably have a list of them configured already.Once 
connected you can use the `/join #vim` command to join the #vim channel (makes 
sense doesn't it).In the webchat you can also enter the room you want to join 
right away.

On the freenode IRC network you need to register your account (aka nick) to 
be able to chat in most channels. A detailed howto 
[http://www.freenode.net/faq.shtml#nicksetup] is available on the freenode 
site. It only takes a few minutes to register so it's not that big a hassle.If 
you're using client software there's usually a way to have the registration 
done automatically once you log on. Google is your friend if you want to find 
out how to do that for your particular client.

More detailed information on all of this is available on the freenode network 
website [http://www.freenode.net].

TO DO
    - Outline how to ask a question. 


Network http://freenode.net [http://freenode.net]

SEE ALSO                                                   *vtw-1579-see-also*

Vi-IMproved.org [http://vi-improved.org] is the online home for #vim. It is 
maintained by robertmeta (AKA: Metacosm 
[https://vim.fandom.com/wiki/User:Metacosm]) who moved the general 
"information on Vim" pages to the Vim Tips wiki in February 2008 
[https://vim.fandom.com/wiki/Vim_Tips_Wiki:New_tips/200802]...

Some useful pages:
    - New to Vim? [https://vim.fandom.com/wiki/New_to_Vim] 
    - Example .vimrc [https://vim.fandom.com/wiki/Example_vimrc] 
    - Best plugins [https://vim.fandom.com/wiki/Vim_scripts#Best_plugins] 
    - Quick tips [https://vim.fandom.com/wiki/Quick_tips] 
    - Vim IRC FAQ [https://vim.fandom.com/wiki/Vim_IRC_FAQ] 
    - Tutorial [https://vim.fandom.com/wiki/Tutorial] 
    - Super retab [https://vim.fandom.com/wiki/Super_retab] 


COMMENTS                                                   *vtw-1579-comments*

CATEGORIES                                                     *vtw-1579-cats*

Todo |vtw-by-category-todo|
IRC |vtw-by-category-irc|


 vim:tw=78:et:ft=help:norl: