*vim-wiki-tips-618.txt*   How to make and submit a patch *vwt-618*

Tip 618 [https://vim.fandom.com/wiki/How_to_make_and_submit_a_patch]   Previous |vwt-616| Next |vwt-619|

created December 12, 2003 · complexity basic · author Benji Fisher · version 
5.7

==============================================================================

Here is how to make a patch. Make a local backup of the file you are going to 
change, then edit the file as needed. Next, change to the directory (such as 
vim74/) containing the src/ source directory. If you are editing one of the 
help files and do not have the Vim source files, change to your $VIMRUNTIME 
directory (usually /usr/local/share/vim/vimxx/ on *nix systems). Use the diff 
program to make the patch like this:

>
    $ diff -u src/eval.c.orig src/eval.c > /tmp/eval.c.diff
<

The directory and file name for the patches are just suggestions. If you 
change more than one file, you can concatenate the patches or read the man 
page for diff to create one big patch.

Vim can automatically create the backup, by setting the 'patchmode' option to 
the string you want to append to make the backup file's name. Do this before 
you save for the first time. For example, :set patchmode=.orig

You can also easily export a patch from Mercurial or Git, if you get the 
source that way. Then you don't need to bother making backups. This is 
normally as easy as running the appropriate diff command and redirecting to a 
file, for example hg diff src/eval.c > eval.c.diff.

If you are on a Windows system that does not have the diff program, you may 
be able to get one from http://gnuwin32.sourceforge.net/ 
[http://gnuwin32.sourceforge.net/]. One also ships in the Vim installer but 
that version adds Windows-style line endings which makes the resulting patch 
not nice to deal with.

The -c option produces a "context diff". This is fairly easy for both humans 
and machines to read, and all official patches for Vim are released in this 
form.

Once you have your patch, you need to submit it. Any changes to help files or 
C code (.txt, .c, and .h files) should go to the vim-dev mailing list: :help 
|vim-dev|See http://www.vim.org/maillist.php#vim-dev 
[http://www.vim.org/maillist.php#vim-dev]

For .vim files in the ftplugin, syntax, indent, etc. directories, you may 
need to submit to a different location. Feel free to post to vim_dev if you 
like, but each one of these files includes an official maintainer and his or 
her contact information at the top of the file. This is the person who will 
eventually be applying your patch, so be sure to contact them first!

COMMENTS  *vwt-618-comments*

I had real trouble applying big 'cvs diff' patches, and found the following 
gnu doc tools and doc useful:

http://www.gnu.org/software/diffutils/diffutils.html 
[http://www.gnu.org/software/diffutils/diffutils.html]

==============================================================================

 vim:tw=78:et:ft=help:norl: