*vim-tips-wiki-1667.txt*   Combine quickfix steps                      *vtw-1667*

Tip 1667 [https://vim.fandom.com/wiki/Combine_quickfix_steps]   Previous |vtw-1666| Next |vtw-1668|

created 
[https://vim.fandom.com/wiki/Vim_Tips_Wiki:New_tips/201011#Combine_quickfix_steps] 
November 19, 2010 · complexity basic · author Jjmurre · version 7.0

==============================================================================

Various packages are available to check source code for style compliance or 
to identify errors such as using a variable before a value is assigned to it. 
For Python code, two such packages are pyflakes 
[http://pypi.python.org/pypi/pyflakes] and pep8 
[http://pypi.python.org/pypi/pep8]. It is convenient to configure Vim's 
`:make` command to invoke one of the programs and display any errors in the 
quickfix window. This tip shows how to run `:make` multiple times and combine 
the errors into one quickfix list.

After sourcing the following code, edit a Python file and type `:Pycheck` to 
check the code with both `pyflakes` and `pep8` (each of these needs to be 
installed).

>
    " Do make with different makeprg settings.
    " Error lists from each makeprg are combined into one quickfix list.
    command! Pycheck call DoMake('pyflakes', 'pep8')
    function! DoMake(...)
      update  " save any changes because makeprg checks the file on disk
      let savemp = &makeprg
      let qflist = []
      for prg in a:000
        let &makeprg = prg . ' %'
        silent make!
        let qflist += getqflist()
      endfor
      if empty(qflist)
        cclose
      else
        call setqflist(qflist)
        copen
        cfirst
      endif
      let &makeprg = savemp
    endfunction
<

The script defines a user command (`Pycheck`) that invokes the `DoMake` 
function, specifying the names of the programs to be run to check the current 
file. Any changes to the file are saved. Each program name provided (there can 
be any number) is used to set the 'makeprg' option, then `:make!` is run to 
invoke the program and set the quickfix list from the results. The `!` option 
avoids jumping to the first error, if any (later, the script jumps to the 
first error for the first program, if applicable), while `silent` prevents the 
display of normal messages that result from running `:make` in order to avoid 
the "Press Enter" prompt.

The quickfix list from each run of `:make` is appended to `qflist` (a 
variable initialised to `[]` or an empty list). When finished, `qflist` holds 
all quickfix messages resulting from running each of the programs. If the list 
is empty, the quickfix window is closed (if it was currently open from a 
previous run). Otherwise, the list is used to set Vim's quickfix list, and the 
quickfix window is opened and the first error displayed.

SEE ALSO                                                   *vtw-1667-see-also*
    - VimTip76 |vtw-76| 
    - VimTip203 |vtw-203| 
    - VimTip692 |vtw-692| 
    - VimTip1639 |vtw-1639| 


COMMENTS                                                   *vtw-1667-comments*

CATEGORIES                                                     *vtw-1667-cats*

Compiler *vtw-by-category-compiler*


 vim:tw=78:et:ft=help:norl: